examples/form-builder/cms/README.md, before:

# Form Builder Example CMS

This is an example repo for a CMS built with [Payload](https://payloadcms.com). This repo showcases how to utilize Payload's [Form Builder Plugin](https://github.com/payloadcms/plugin-form-builder).

## Getting Started

1. Clone this repo
2. `cd` into the directory and run `yarn` or `npm install`
3. Copy (`cp`) the `.env.example` file to an `.env` file
4. Run `yarn dev` or `npm run dev` to start the development server
5. Visit `http://localhost:8000/admin` to access the admin panel
6. Login with the following credentials:
   - Email: `dev@payloadcms.com`
   - Password: `test`

## Frontend Development

Clone the [frontend](https://github.com/payloadcms/form-builder-example-website) and follow the instructions there to get started. You can use this repo as a backend for the frontend and see for yourself how it all works together.

## Usage

Once booted up, a `Basic Form` will be immediately available to view on the home page along with a few other forms on their corresponding pages.

- These forms are seeded into the `forms` collection.
- A few pages have also been seeded in on start up and utilize a layout building block called `Form Block` that is wired up to use the different forms from the `forms` collection.
- This is done by adding a `relationship` field in the form-block config and setting its `relationTo` field to the `forms` collection.

Commit message:

feat: updates form-builder example READMEs

examples/form-builder/cms/README.md, after:

# Form Builder Example CMS

This is an example repo for a CMS built with [Payload](https://payloadcms.com). This repo showcases how to utilize Payload's [Form Builder Plugin](https://github.com/payloadcms/plugin-form-builder).

## Getting Started

1. Clone this repo
2. `cd` into the directory and run `yarn` or `npm install`
3. Copy (`cp`) the `.env.example` file to an `.env` file
4. Run `yarn dev` or `npm run dev` to start the development server
5. Visit `http://localhost:8000/admin` to access the admin panel
6. Login with the following credentials:
   - Email: `dev@payloadcms.com`
   - Password: `test`

## Frontend Development

There is a fully working Next.js app tailored specifically for this example which can be found [here](../nextjs). Follow the instructions there to get started. You can use this repo as a backend for the frontend and see for yourself how it all works together.

## Usage

Once booted up, a `Basic Form` will be immediately available to view on the home page along with a few other forms on their corresponding pages.

- These forms are seeded into the `forms` collection.
- A few pages have also been seeded in on start up and utilize a layout building block called `Form Block` that is wired up to use the different forms from the `forms` collection.
- This is done by adding a `relationship` field in the form-block config and setting its `relationTo` field to the `forms` collection.
