examples/preview/cms/README.md, before:

# Preview Example for Payload CMS

This example demonstrates how to implement preview into Payload CMS using [Versions](https://payloadcms.com/docs/versions/overview) and [Drafts](https://payloadcms.com/docs/versions/drafts).

There is a fully working Next.js app tailored specifically for this example which can be found [here](../nextjs). Follow the instructions there to get started. If you are setting up preview for another front-end, please consider contributing to this repo with your own example!

## Getting Started

1. Clone this repo
2. `cd` into this directory and run `yarn` or `npm install`
3. `cp .env.example .env` to copy the example environment variables
4. `yarn dev` or `npm run dev` to start the server and seed the database
5. `open http://localhost:8000/admin` to access the admin panel
6. Login with email `dev@payloadcms.com` and password `test`

## How it works

A `pages` collection is created with `versions: { drafts: true }` and access control that restricts access to only logged-in users and `published` pages. On your front-end, a query similar to this can be used to fetch data and bypass access control in preview mode:

```ts
  const preview = true; // set this based on your own front-end environment (see `Preview Mode` below)
  const pageSlug = 'example-page'; // same here
  const searchParams = `?where[slug][equals]=${pageSlug}&depth=1${preview ? `&draft=true` : ''}`

  // when previewing, send the payload token to bypass draft access control
  const pageReq = await fetch(`${process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_CMS_URL}/api/pages${searchParams}`, {
    headers: {
      ...preview ? {
         Authorization: `JWT ${payloadToken}`,
      } : {},
    },
  })
```

The [`cors`](https://payloadcms.com/docs/production/preventing-abuse#cross-origin-resource-sharing-cors), [`csrf`](https://payloadcms.com/docs/production/preventing-abuse#cross-site-request-forgery-csrf), and [`cookies`](https://payloadcms.com/docs/authentication/config#options) settings are also configured to ensure that the admin panel and front-end can communicate with each other securely.

### Preview Mode

To enter preview mode we format a custom URL using a [preview function](https://payloadcms.com/docs/configuration/collections#preview) in the collection config. When a user clicks the "Preview" button, they are routed to this URL along with their http-only cookies and revalidation key. Your front-end can then use the `payload-token` and revalidation key to verify the request and enter into its own preview mode.

### Instant Static Regeneration (ISR)

If your front-end is statically generated then you may also want to regenerate the HTML for each page as they are published. To do this, we add an `afterChange` hook to the collection that fires a request to your front-end in the background each time the document is updated. You can handle this request on your front-end and regenerate the HTML for your page however needed.

### Seed

On boot, a seed script is included to create a user, a home page, and an example page with two versions, one published and one draft.

Commit message:

chore: adds cloud messaging to example READMEs (#2612)

examples/preview/cms/README.md, after:

# Payload Preview Example

This example demonstrates how to implement preview into Payload using [Versions](https://payloadcms.com/docs/versions/overview) and [Drafts](https://payloadcms.com/docs/versions/drafts).

There is a fully working Next.js app made explicitly for this example which can be found [here](../nextjs). Follow the instructions there to get started. If you are setting up preview for another front-end, please consider contributing to this repo with your own example!

## Quick Start

1. Clone this repo
2. `cd` into this directory and run `yarn` or `npm install`
3. `cp .env.example .env` to copy the example environment variables
4. `yarn dev` or `npm run dev` to start the server and seed the database
5. `open http://localhost:8000/admin` to access the admin panel
6. Login with email `dev@payloadcms.com` and password `test`

That's it! Changes made in `./src` will be reflected in your app. See the [Development](#development) section for more details.

## How it works

A `pages` collection is created with `versions: { drafts: true }` and access control that restricts access to only logged-in users and `published` pages. On your front-end, a query similar to this can be used to fetch data and bypass access control in preview mode:

```ts
  const preview = true; // set this based on your own front-end environment (see `Preview Mode` below)
  const pageSlug = 'example-page'; // same here
  const searchParams = `?where[slug][equals]=${pageSlug}&depth=1${preview ? `&draft=true` : ''}`

  // when previewing, send the payload token to bypass draft access control
  const pageReq = await fetch(`${process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_CMS_URL}/api/pages${searchParams}`, {
    headers: {
      ...preview ? {
         Authorization: `JWT ${payloadToken}`,
      } : {},
    },
  })
```

The [`cors`](https://payloadcms.com/docs/production/preventing-abuse#cross-origin-resource-sharing-cors), [`csrf`](https://payloadcms.com/docs/production/preventing-abuse#cross-site-request-forgery-csrf), and [`cookies`](https://payloadcms.com/docs/authentication/config#options) settings are also configured to ensure that the admin panel and front-end can communicate with each other securely.

### Preview Mode

To enter preview mode we format a custom URL using a [preview function](https://payloadcms.com/docs/configuration/collections#preview) in the collection config. When a user clicks the "Preview" button, they are routed to this URL along with their http-only cookies and revalidation key. Your front-end can then use the `payload-token` and revalidation key to verify the request and enter into its own preview mode.

### ISR

If your front-end is statically generated then you may also want to regenerate the HTML for each page as they are published, sometimes referred to as Incremental Static Regeneration. To do this, we add an `afterChange` hook to the collection that fires a request to your front-end in the background each time the document is updated. You can handle this request on your front-end and regenerate the HTML for your page however needed.

## Development

To spin up this example locally, follow the [Quick Start](#quick-start).

### Seed

On boot, a seed script is included to create a user, a home page, and an example page with two versions, one published and one draft.

> NOTICE: seeding the database is destructive because it drops your current database to populate a fresh one from the seed template. Only run this command if you are starting a new project or can afford to lose your current data.

## Production

To run Payload in production, you need to build and serve the Admin panel. To do so, follow these steps:

1. First invoke the `payload build` script by running `yarn build` or `npm run build` in your project root. This creates a `./build` directory with a production-ready admin bundle.
1. Then run `yarn serve` or `npm run serve` to run Node in production and serve Payload from the `./build` directory.

### Deployment

The easiest way to deploy your project is to use [Payload Cloud](https://payloadcms.com/new/import), a one-click hosting solution to deploy production-ready instances of your Payload apps directly from your GitHub repo. You can also deploy your app manually, check out the [deployment documentation](https://payloadcms.com/docs/production/deployment) for full details.

## Questions

If you have any issues or questions, reach out to us on [Discord](https://discord.com/invite/r6sCXqVk3v) or start a [GitHub discussion](https://github.com/payloadcms/payload/discussions).
