docs/fields/array.mdx, before:

---
title: Array Field
label: Array
order: 20
desc: Array fields are intended for sets of repeating fields, that you define. Learn how to use array fields, see examples and options.
keywords: array, fields, config, configuration, documentation, Content Management System, cms, headless, javascript, node, react, express
---

<Banner >
  The Array field type is used when you need to have a set of "repeating" fields. It stores an array of objects containing the fields that you define. Its uses can be simple or highly complex.
</Banner>

**Example uses:**

- A "slider" with an image ([upload field](/docs/fields/upload)) and a caption ([text field](/docs/fields/text))
- Navigational structures where editors can specify nav items containing pages ([relationship field](/docs/fields/relationship)), an "open in new tab" [checkbox field](/docs/fields/checkbox)
- Event agenda "timeslots" where you need to specify start & end time ([date field](/docs/fields/date)), label ([text field](/docs/fields/text)), and Learn More page [relationship](/docs/fields/relationship)

![Array field in Payload admin panel](https://payloadcms.com/images/docs/fields/array.jpg)
*Admin panel screenshot of an Array field with a Row containing two text fields, a read-only text field and a checkbox*

### Config

| Option           | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| ---------------- |-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **`name`** *         | To be used as the property name when stored and retrieved from the database. [More](/docs/fields/overview#field-names)                                                                                                                                                            |
| **`label`**          | Text used as the heading in the Admin panel or an object with keys for each language. Auto-generated from name if not defined.                                                                                                                                                    |
| **`fields`** *       | Array of field types to correspond to each row of the Array.                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| **`validate`**       | Provide a custom validation function that will be executed on both the Admin panel and the backend. [More](/docs/fields/overview#validation)                                                                                                                                      |
| **`saveToJWT`**      | If this field is top-level and nested in a config supporting [Authentication](/docs/authentication/config), include its data in the user JWT.                                                                                                                                     |
| **`hooks`**          | Provide field-based hooks to control logic for this field. [More](/docs/fields/overview#field-level-hooks)                                                                                                                                                                        |
| **`access`**         | Provide field-based access control to denote what users can see and do with this field's data. [More](/docs/fields/overview#field-level-access-control)                                                                                                                           |
| **`hidden`**         | Restrict this field's visibility from all APIs entirely. Will still be saved to the database, but will not appear in any API or the Admin panel.                                                                                                                                  |
| **`defaultValue`**   | Provide an array of row data to be used for this field's default value. [More](/docs/fields/overview#default-values)                                                                                                                                                              |
| **`localized`**      | Enable localization for this field. Requires [localization to be enabled](/docs/configuration/localization) in the Base config. If enabled, a separate, localized set of all data within this Array will be kept, so there is no need to specify each nested field as `localized`. |
| **`required`**       | Require this field to have a value.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| **`labels`**         | Customize the row labels appearing in the Admin dashboard.                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| **`admin`**        | Admin-specific configuration. See below for [more detail](#admin-config).                                                                                                                                                                                                         |

*\* An asterisk denotes that a property is required.*

### Admin Config

In addition to the default [field admin config](/docs/fields/overview#admin-config), you can adjust the following properties:

| Option                 | Description                     |
| ---------------------- | ------------------------------- |
| **`initCollapsed`**    | Set the initial collapsed state |
| **`components.RowLabel`**  | Function or React component to be rendered as the label on the array row. Receives `({ data, index, path })` as args |


### Example

`collections/ExampleCollection.ts`
```ts
import { CollectionConfig } from 'payload/types';

const ExampleCollection: CollectionConfig = {
  slug: 'example-collection',
  fields: [
    {
      name: 'slider', // required
      type: 'array', // required
      label: 'Image Slider',
      minRows: 2,
      maxRows: 10,
      labels: {
        singular: 'Slide',
        plural: 'Slides',
      },
      fields: [ // required
        {
          name: 'title',
          type: 'text',
        },
        {
          name: 'image',
          type: 'upload',
          relationTo: 'media',
          required: true,
        },
        {
          name: 'caption',
          type: 'text',
        }
      ],
      admin: {
        components: {
          RowLabel: ({ data, index }) => {
            return data?.title || `Slide ${String(index).padStart(2, '0')}`;
          },
        },
      },
    }
  ]
};
```

Commit message:

feat: configuration extension points
* added custom config extension points

* Added custom field to documentation

* fix deeprequired issue

docs/fields/array.mdx, after:

---
title: Array Field
label: Array
order: 20
desc: Array fields are intended for sets of repeating fields, that you define. Learn how to use array fields, see examples and options.
keywords: array, fields, config, configuration, documentation, Content Management System, cms, headless, javascript, node, react, express
---

<Banner >
  The Array field type is used when you need to have a set of "repeating" fields. It stores an array of objects containing the fields that you define. Its uses can be simple or highly complex.
</Banner>

**Example uses:**

- A "slider" with an image ([upload field](/docs/fields/upload)) and a caption ([text field](/docs/fields/text))
- Navigational structures where editors can specify nav items containing pages ([relationship field](/docs/fields/relationship)), an "open in new tab" [checkbox field](/docs/fields/checkbox)
- Event agenda "timeslots" where you need to specify start & end time ([date field](/docs/fields/date)), label ([text field](/docs/fields/text)), and Learn More page [relationship](/docs/fields/relationship)

![Array field in Payload admin panel](https://payloadcms.com/images/docs/fields/array.jpg)
*Admin panel screenshot of an Array field with a Row containing two text fields, a read-only text field and a checkbox*

### Config

| Option           | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| ---------------- |-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **`name`** *         | To be used as the property name when stored and retrieved from the database. [More](/docs/fields/overview#field-names)                                                                                                                                                            |
| **`label`**          | Text used as the heading in the Admin panel or an object with keys for each language. Auto-generated from name if not defined.                                                                                                                                                    |
| **`fields`** *       | Array of field types to correspond to each row of the Array.                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| **`validate`**       | Provide a custom validation function that will be executed on both the Admin panel and the backend. [More](/docs/fields/overview#validation)                                                                                                                                      |
| **`saveToJWT`**      | If this field is top-level and nested in a config supporting [Authentication](/docs/authentication/config), include its data in the user JWT.                                                                                                                                     |
| **`hooks`**          | Provide field-based hooks to control logic for this field. [More](/docs/fields/overview#field-level-hooks)                                                                                                                                                                        |
| **`access`**         | Provide field-based access control to denote what users can see and do with this field's data. [More](/docs/fields/overview#field-level-access-control)                                                                                                                           |
| **`hidden`**         | Restrict this field's visibility from all APIs entirely. Will still be saved to the database, but will not appear in any API or the Admin panel.                                                                                                                                  |
| **`defaultValue`**   | Provide an array of row data to be used for this field's default value. [More](/docs/fields/overview#default-values)                                                                                                                                                              |
| **`localized`**      | Enable localization for this field. Requires [localization to be enabled](/docs/configuration/localization) in the Base config. If enabled, a separate, localized set of all data within this Array will be kept, so there is no need to specify each nested field as `localized`. |
| **`required`**       | Require this field to have a value.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| **`labels`**         | Customize the row labels appearing in the Admin dashboard.                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| **`admin`**          | Admin-specific configuration. See below for [more detail](#admin-config).                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| **`custom`**         | Extension point for adding custom data (e.g. for plugins)                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |

*\* An asterisk denotes that a property is required.*

### Admin Config

In addition to the default [field admin config](/docs/fields/overview#admin-config), you can adjust the following properties:

| Option                 | Description                     |
| ---------------------- | ------------------------------- |
| **`initCollapsed`**    | Set the initial collapsed state |
| **`components.RowLabel`**  | Function or React component to be rendered as the label on the array row. Receives `({ data, index, path })` as args |


### Example

`collections/ExampleCollection.ts`
```ts
import { CollectionConfig } from 'payload/types';

const ExampleCollection: CollectionConfig = {
  slug: 'example-collection',
  fields: [
    {
      name: 'slider', // required
      type: 'array', // required
      label: 'Image Slider',
      minRows: 2,
      maxRows: 10,
      labels: {
        singular: 'Slide',
        plural: 'Slides',
      },
      fields: [ // required
        {
          name: 'title',
          type: 'text',
        },
        {
          name: 'image',
          type: 'upload',
          relationTo: 'media',
          required: true,
        },
        {
          name: 'caption',
          type: 'text',
        }
      ],
      admin: {
        components: {
          RowLabel: ({ data, index }) => {
            return data?.title || `Slide ${String(index).padStart(2, '0')}`;
          },
        },
      },
    }
  ]
};
```
