docs/fields/blocks.mdx, before:

---
title: Blocks Field
label: Blocks
order: 30
desc: The Blocks field type is a great layout build and can be used to construct any flexible content model. Learn how to use Block fields, see examples and options.
keywords: blocks, fields, config, configuration, documentation, Content Management System, cms, headless, javascript, node, react, express
---

<Banner >
  The Blocks field type is <strong>incredibly powerful</strong> and can be used as a <em>layout builder</em> as well as to define any other flexible content model you can think of. It stores an array of objects, where each object must match the shape of one of your provided block configs.
</Banner>

**Example uses:**

- A layout builder tool that grants editors to design highly customizable page or post layouts. Blocks could include configs such as `Quote`, `CallToAction`, `Slider`, `Content`, `Gallery`, or others.
- A form builder tool where available block configs might be `Text`, `Select`, or `Checkbox`.
- Virtual event agenda "timeslots" where a timeslot could either be a `Break`, a `Presentation`, or a `BreakoutSession`.

![Blocks field in Payload admin panel](https://payloadcms.com/images/docs/fields/blocks.jpg)
*Admin panel screenshot of a Blocks field type with Call to Action and Number block examples*


### Field config

| Option                  | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
|-------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **`name`** *            | To be used as the property name when stored and retrieved from the database. [More](/docs/fields/overview#field-names)                                                                                                                                                             |
| **`label`**             | Text used as the heading in the Admin panel or an object with keys for each language. Auto-generated from name if not defined.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| **`blocks`** *          | Array of [block configs](/docs/fields/blocks#block-configs) to be made available to this field.                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| **`validate`**          | Provide a custom validation function that will be executed on both the Admin panel and the backend. [More](/docs/fields/overview#validation)                                                                                                                                       |
| **`saveToJWT`**         | If this field is top-level and nested in a config supporting [Authentication](/docs/authentication/config), include its data in the user JWT.                                                                                                                                      |
| **`hooks`**             | Provide field-level hooks to control logic for this field. [More](/docs/fields/overview#field-level-hooks)                                                                                                                                                                         |
| **`access`**            | Provide field-level access control to denote what users can see and do with this field's data. [More](/docs/fields/overview#field-level-access-control)                                                                                                                            |
| **`hidden`**            | Restrict this field's visibility from all APIs entirely. Will still be saved to the database, but will not appear in any API response or the Admin panel.                                                                                                                          |
| **`defaultValue`**      | Provide an array of block data to be used for this field's default value. [More](/docs/fields/overview#default-values)                                                                                                                                                             |
| **`localized`**         | Enable localization for this field. Requires [localization to be enabled](/docs/configuration/localization) in the Base config. If enabled, a separate, localized set of all data within this field will be kept, so there is no need to specify each nested field as `localized`. || **`required`**       | Require this field to have a value. |
| **`unique`**            | Enforce that each entry in the Collection has a unique value for this field.                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| **`labels`**            | Customize the block row labels appearing in the Admin dashboard.                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| **`admin`**             | Admin-specific configuration. See below for [more detail](#admin-config).                                                                                                                                                                                                          |

*\* An asterisk denotes that a property is required.*

### Admin Config

In addition to the default [field admin config](/docs/fields/overview#admin-config), you can adjust the following properties:

| Option                 | Description                     |
| ---------------------- | ------------------------------- |
| **`initCollapsed`**    | Set the initial collapsed state |

### Block configs

Blocks are defined as separate configs of their own.

<Banner type="success">
  <strong>Tip:</strong><br />
  Best practice is to define each block config in its own file, and then import them into your Blocks field as necessary. This way each block config can be easily shared between fields. For instance, using the "layout builder" example, you might want to feature a few of the same blocks in a Post collection as well as a Page collection. Abstracting into their own files trivializes their reusability.
</Banner>

| Option                     | Description                                                                                             |
|----------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **`slug`** *               | Identifier for this block type. Will be saved on each block as the `blockType` property.                |
| **`fields`** *             | Array of fields to be stored in this block.                                                             |
| **`labels`**               | Customize the block labels that appear in the Admin dashboard. Auto-generated from slug if not defined. |
| **`imageURL`**             | Provide a custom image thumbnail to help editors identify this block in the Admin UI.                   |
| **`imageAltText`**         | Customize this block's image thumbnail alt text.                                                        |
| **`graphQL.singularName`** | Text to use for the GraphQL schema name. Auto-generated from slug if not defined                        |

#### Auto-generated data per block

In addition to the field data that you define on each block, Payload will store two additional properties on each block:

**`blockType`**

The `blockType` is saved as the slug of the block that has been selected.

**`blockName`**

The Admin panel provides each block with a `blockName` field which optionally allows editors to label their blocks for better editability and readability.

### Example

`collections/ExampleCollection.js`
```ts
import { Block, CollectionConfig } from 'payload/types';

const QuoteBlock: Block = {
  slug: 'Quote', // required
  imageURL: 'https://google.com/path/to/image.jpg',
  imageAltText: 'A nice thumbnail image to show what this block looks like',
  fields: [ // required
    {
      name: 'quoteHeader',
      type: 'text',
      required: true,
    },
    {
      name: 'quoteText',
      type: 'text',
    },
  ]
};

const ExampleCollection: CollectionConfig = {
  slug: 'example-collection',
  fields: [
    {
      name: 'layout', // required
      type: 'blocks', // required
      minRows: 1,
      maxRows: 20,
      blocks: [ // required
       QuoteBlock
      ]
    }
  ]
}

```

### TypeScript

As you build your own Block configs, you might want to store them in separate files but retain typing accordingly. To do so, you can import and use Payload's `Block` type:

```ts
import type { Block } from 'payload/types';

```

Commit message:

feat: configuration extension points
* added custom config extension points

* Added custom field to documentation

* fix deeprequired issue

docs/fields/blocks.mdx, after:

---
title: Blocks Field
label: Blocks
order: 30
desc: The Blocks field type is a great layout build and can be used to construct any flexible content model. Learn how to use Block fields, see examples and options.
keywords: blocks, fields, config, configuration, documentation, Content Management System, cms, headless, javascript, node, react, express
---

<Banner >
  The Blocks field type is <strong>incredibly powerful</strong> and can be used as a <em>layout builder</em> as well as to define any other flexible content model you can think of. It stores an array of objects, where each object must match the shape of one of your provided block configs.
</Banner>

**Example uses:**

- A layout builder tool that grants editors to design highly customizable page or post layouts. Blocks could include configs such as `Quote`, `CallToAction`, `Slider`, `Content`, `Gallery`, or others.
- A form builder tool where available block configs might be `Text`, `Select`, or `Checkbox`.
- Virtual event agenda "timeslots" where a timeslot could either be a `Break`, a `Presentation`, or a `BreakoutSession`.

![Blocks field in Payload admin panel](https://payloadcms.com/images/docs/fields/blocks.jpg)
*Admin panel screenshot of a Blocks field type with Call to Action and Number block examples*


### Field config

| Option                  | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
|-------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **`name`** *            | To be used as the property name when stored and retrieved from the database. [More](/docs/fields/overview#field-names)                                                                                                                                                             |
| **`label`**             | Text used as the heading in the Admin panel or an object with keys for each language. Auto-generated from name if not defined.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| **`blocks`** *          | Array of [block configs](/docs/fields/blocks#block-configs) to be made available to this field.                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| **`validate`**          | Provide a custom validation function that will be executed on both the Admin panel and the backend. [More](/docs/fields/overview#validation)                                                                                                                                       |
| **`saveToJWT`**         | If this field is top-level and nested in a config supporting [Authentication](/docs/authentication/config), include its data in the user JWT.                                                                                                                                      |
| **`hooks`**             | Provide field-level hooks to control logic for this field. [More](/docs/fields/overview#field-level-hooks)                                                                                                                                                                         |
| **`access`**            | Provide field-level access control to denote what users can see and do with this field's data. [More](/docs/fields/overview#field-level-access-control)                                                                                                                            |
| **`hidden`**            | Restrict this field's visibility from all APIs entirely. Will still be saved to the database, but will not appear in any API response or the Admin panel.                                                                                                                          |
| **`defaultValue`**      | Provide an array of block data to be used for this field's default value. [More](/docs/fields/overview#default-values)                                                                                                                                                             |
| **`localized`**         | Enable localization for this field. Requires [localization to be enabled](/docs/configuration/localization) in the Base config. If enabled, a separate, localized set of all data within this field will be kept, so there is no need to specify each nested field as `localized`. || **`required`**       | Require this field to have a value. |
| **`unique`**            | Enforce that each entry in the Collection has a unique value for this field.                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| **`labels`**            | Customize the block row labels appearing in the Admin dashboard.                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| **`admin`**             | Admin-specific configuration. See below for [more detail](#admin-config).                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| **`custom`**            | Extension point for adding custom data (e.g. for plugins)                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |

*\* An asterisk denotes that a property is required.*

### Admin Config

In addition to the default [field admin config](/docs/fields/overview#admin-config), you can adjust the following properties:

| Option                 | Description                     |
| ---------------------- | ------------------------------- |
| **`initCollapsed`**    | Set the initial collapsed state |

### Block configs

Blocks are defined as separate configs of their own.

<Banner type="success">
  <strong>Tip:</strong><br />
  Best practice is to define each block config in its own file, and then import them into your Blocks field as necessary. This way each block config can be easily shared between fields. For instance, using the "layout builder" example, you might want to feature a few of the same blocks in a Post collection as well as a Page collection. Abstracting into their own files trivializes their reusability.
</Banner>

| Option                     | Description                                                                                             |
|----------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **`slug`** *               | Identifier for this block type. Will be saved on each block as the `blockType` property.                |
| **`fields`** *             | Array of fields to be stored in this block.                                                             |
| **`labels`**               | Customize the block labels that appear in the Admin dashboard. Auto-generated from slug if not defined. |
| **`imageURL`**             | Provide a custom image thumbnail to help editors identify this block in the Admin UI.                   |
| **`imageAltText`**         | Customize this block's image thumbnail alt text.                                                        |
| **`graphQL.singularName`** | Text to use for the GraphQL schema name. Auto-generated from slug if not defined                        |

#### Auto-generated data per block

In addition to the field data that you define on each block, Payload will store two additional properties on each block:

**`blockType`**

The `blockType` is saved as the slug of the block that has been selected.

**`blockName`**

The Admin panel provides each block with a `blockName` field which optionally allows editors to label their blocks for better editability and readability.

### Example

`collections/ExampleCollection.js`
```ts
import { Block, CollectionConfig } from 'payload/types';

const QuoteBlock: Block = {
  slug: 'Quote', // required
  imageURL: 'https://google.com/path/to/image.jpg',
  imageAltText: 'A nice thumbnail image to show what this block looks like',
  fields: [ // required
    {
      name: 'quoteHeader',
      type: 'text',
      required: true,
    },
    {
      name: 'quoteText',
      type: 'text',
    },
  ]
};

const ExampleCollection: CollectionConfig = {
  slug: 'example-collection',
  fields: [
    {
      name: 'layout', // required
      type: 'blocks', // required
      minRows: 1,
      maxRows: 20,
      blocks: [ // required
       QuoteBlock
      ]
    }
  ]
}

```

### TypeScript

As you build your own Block configs, you might want to store them in separate files but retain typing accordingly. To do so, you can import and use Payload's `Block` type:

```ts
import type { Block } from 'payload/types';

```
