docs/fields/collapsible.mdx, before:

---
title: Collapsible Field
label: Collapsible
order: 60
desc: With the Collapsible field, you can place fields within a collapsible layout component that can be collapsed / expanded.
keywords: row, fields, config, configuration, documentation, Content Management System, cms, headless, javascript, node, react, express
---

<Banner >
  The Collapsible field is presentational-only and only affects the Admin panel. By using it, you can place fields within a nice layout component that can be collapsed / expanded.
</Banner>

### Config

| Option         | Description                                                               |
| -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **`label`** *  | A label to render within the header of the collapsible component. This can be a string, function or react component. Function/components receive `({ data, path })` as args. |
| **`fields`** * | Array of field types to nest within this Collapsible.                     |
| **`admin`**    | Admin-specific configuration. See below for [more detail](#admin-config). |

*\* An asterisk denotes that a property is required.*

### Admin Config

In addition to the default [field admin config](/docs/fields/overview#admin-config), you can adjust the following properties:

| Option                 | Description                     |
| ---------------------- | ------------------------------- |
| **`initCollapsed`**    | Set the initial collapsed state |

### Example

`collections/ExampleCollection.ts`
```ts
import { CollectionConfig } from 'payload/types';

const ExampleCollection: CollectionConfig = {
  slug: 'example-collection',
  fields: [
    {
      label: ({ data }) => data?.title || 'Untitled',
      type: 'collapsible', // required
      fields: [ // required
        {
          name: 'title',
          type: 'text',
          required: true,
        },
        {
          name: 'someTextField',
          type: 'text',
          required: true,
        },
      ],
    }
  ]
};
```

Commit message:

feat: configuration extension points
* added custom config extension points

* Added custom field to documentation

* fix deeprequired issue

docs/fields/collapsible.mdx, after:

---
title: Collapsible Field
label: Collapsible
order: 60
desc: With the Collapsible field, you can place fields within a collapsible layout component that can be collapsed / expanded.
keywords: row, fields, config, configuration, documentation, Content Management System, cms, headless, javascript, node, react, express
---

<Banner >
  The Collapsible field is presentational-only and only affects the Admin panel. By using it, you can place fields within a nice layout component that can be collapsed / expanded.
</Banner>

### Config

| Option         | Description                                                               |
| -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **`label`** *  | A label to render within the header of the collapsible component. This can be a string, function or react component. Function/components receive `({ data, path })` as args. |
| **`fields`** * | Array of field types to nest within this Collapsible.                     |
| **`admin`**    | Admin-specific configuration. See below for [more detail](#admin-config). |
| **`custom`**   | Extension point for adding custom data (e.g. for plugins)                 |

*\* An asterisk denotes that a property is required.*

### Admin Config

In addition to the default [field admin config](/docs/fields/overview#admin-config), you can adjust the following properties:

| Option                 | Description                     |
| ---------------------- | ------------------------------- |
| **`initCollapsed`**    | Set the initial collapsed state |

### Example

`collections/ExampleCollection.ts`
```ts
import { CollectionConfig } from 'payload/types';

const ExampleCollection: CollectionConfig = {
  slug: 'example-collection',
  fields: [
    {
      label: ({ data }) => data?.title || 'Untitled',
      type: 'collapsible', // required
      fields: [ // required
        {
          name: 'title',
          type: 'text',
          required: true,
        },
        {
          name: 'someTextField',
          type: 'text',
          required: true,
        },
      ],
    }
  ]
};
```
