docs/fields/date.mdx, before:

---
title: Date Field
label: Date
order: 70
desc: The Date field type stores a Date in the database. Learn how to use and customize the Date field, see examples and options.
keywords: date, fields, config, configuration, documentation, Content Management System, cms, headless, javascript, node, react, express
---

<Banner>
  The Date field type saves a Date in the database and provides the Admin panel
  with a customizable time picker interface.
</Banner>

This field uses [`react-datepicker`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-datepicker) for the Admin panel component.

### Config

| Option             | Description                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| ------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **`name`** \*      | To be used as the property name when stored and retrieved from the database. [More](/docs/fields/overview#field-names)                                                                              |
| **`label`**        | Text used as a field label in the Admin panel or an object with keys for each language.                                                                                                             |
| **`index`**        | Build a [MongoDB index](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/indexes/) for this field to produce faster queries. Set this field to `true` if your users will perform queries on this field's data often. |
| **`validate`**     | Provide a custom validation function that will be executed on both the Admin panel and the backend. [More](/docs/fields/overview#validation)                                                        |
| **`saveToJWT`**    | If this field is top-level and nested in a config supporting [Authentication](/docs/authentication/config), include its data in the user JWT.                                                       |
| **`hooks`**        | Provide field-based hooks to control logic for this field. [More](/docs/fields/overview#field-level-hooks)                                                                                          |
| **`access`**       | Provide field-based access control to denote what users can see and do with this field's data. [More](/docs/fields/overview#field-level-access-control)                                             |
| **`hidden`**       | Restrict this field's visibility from all APIs entirely. Will still be saved to the database, but will not appear in any API or the Admin panel.                                                    |
| **`defaultValue`** | Provide data to be used for this field's default value. [More](/docs/fields/overview#default-values)                                                                                                |
| **`localized`**    | Enable localization for this field. Requires [localization to be enabled](/docs/configuration/localization) in the Base config.                                                                     |
| **`required`**     | Require this field to have a value.                                                                                                                                                                 |
| **`admin`**        | Admin-specific configuration. See below for [more detail](#admin-config).                                                                                                                           |

_\* An asterisk denotes that a property is required._

### Admin Config

In addition to the default [field admin config](/docs/fields/overview#admin-config), you can customize the following fields that will adjust how the component displays in the admin panel via the `date` property.

| Property                       | Description                                                                                 |
| ------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **`placeholder`**              | Placeholder text for the field.                                                             |
| **`date`**                     | Pass options to customize date field appearance.                                            |
| **`date.displayFormat`**       | Format date to be shown in field **cell**.                                                  |
| **`date.pickerAppearance`** \* | Determines the appearance of the datepicker: `dayAndTime` `timeOnly` `dayOnly` `monthOnly`. |
| **`date.monthsToShow`** \*     | Number of months to display max is 2. Defaults to 1.                                        |
| **`date.minDate`** \*          | Min date value to allow.                                                                    |
| **`date.maxDate`** \*          | Max date value to allow.                                                                    |
| **`date.minTime`** \*          | Min time value to allow.                                                                    |
| **`date.maxTime`** \*          | Max date value to allow.                                                                    |
| **`date.timeIntervals`** \*    | Time intervals to display. Defaults to 30 minutes.                                          |
| **`date.timeFormat`** \*       | Determines time format. Defaults to `'h:mm aa'`.                                            |

_\* This property is passed directly to [react-datepicker](https://github.com/Hacker0x01/react-datepicker/blob/master/docs/datepicker.md). ._

#### Display Format and Picker Appearance

These properties only affect how the date is displayed in the UI. The full date is always stored in the format `YYYY-MM-DDTHH:mm:ss.SSSZ` (e.g. `1999-01-01T8:00:00.000+05:00`).

`displayFormat` determines how the date is presented in the field **cell**, you can pass any valid (unicode date format)[https://date-fns.org/v2.29.3/docs/format].

`pickerAppearance` sets the appearance of the **react datepicker**, the options available are `dayAndTime`, `dayOnly`, `timeOnly`, and `monthOnly`. By default, the datepicker will display `dayOnly`.

When only `pickerAppearance` is set, an equivalent format will be rendered in the date field cell. To overwrite this format, set `displayFormat`.

### Example

`collections/ExampleCollection.ts`

```ts
import { CollectionConfig } from "payload/types";

const ExampleCollection: CollectionConfig = {
  slug: "example-collection",
  fields: [
    {
      name: "dateOnly",
      type: "date",
      admin: {
        date: {
          pickerAppearance: "dayOnly",
          displayFormat: "d MMM yyy",
        },
      },
    },
    {
      name: "timeOnly",
      type: "date",
      admin: {
        date: {
          pickerAppearance: "timeOnly",
          displayFormat: "h:mm:ss a",
        },
      },
    },
    {
      name: "monthOnly",
      type: "date",
      admin: {
        date: {
          pickerAppearance: "monthOnly",
          displayFormat: "MMMM yyyy",
        },
      },
    },
  ],
};
```

Commit message:

feat: configuration extension points
* added custom config extension points

* Added custom field to documentation

* fix deeprequired issue

docs/fields/date.mdx, after:

---
title: Date Field
label: Date
order: 70
desc: The Date field type stores a Date in the database. Learn how to use and customize the Date field, see examples and options.
keywords: date, fields, config, configuration, documentation, Content Management System, cms, headless, javascript, node, react, express
---

<Banner>
  The Date field type saves a Date in the database and provides the Admin panel
  with a customizable time picker interface.
</Banner>

This field uses [`react-datepicker`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-datepicker) for the Admin panel component.

### Config

| Option             | Description                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| ------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **`name`** \*      | To be used as the property name when stored and retrieved from the database. [More](/docs/fields/overview#field-names)                                                                              |
| **`label`**        | Text used as a field label in the Admin panel or an object with keys for each language.                                                                                                             |
| **`index`**        | Build a [MongoDB index](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/indexes/) for this field to produce faster queries. Set this field to `true` if your users will perform queries on this field's data often. |
| **`validate`**     | Provide a custom validation function that will be executed on both the Admin panel and the backend. [More](/docs/fields/overview#validation)                                                        |
| **`saveToJWT`**    | If this field is top-level and nested in a config supporting [Authentication](/docs/authentication/config), include its data in the user JWT.                                                       |
| **`hooks`**        | Provide field-based hooks to control logic for this field. [More](/docs/fields/overview#field-level-hooks)                                                                                          |
| **`access`**       | Provide field-based access control to denote what users can see and do with this field's data. [More](/docs/fields/overview#field-level-access-control)                                             |
| **`hidden`**       | Restrict this field's visibility from all APIs entirely. Will still be saved to the database, but will not appear in any API or the Admin panel.                                                    |
| **`defaultValue`** | Provide data to be used for this field's default value. [More](/docs/fields/overview#default-values)                                                                                                |
| **`localized`**    | Enable localization for this field. Requires [localization to be enabled](/docs/configuration/localization) in the Base config.                                                                     |
| **`required`**     | Require this field to have a value.                                                                                                                                                                 |
| **`admin`**        | Admin-specific configuration. See below for [more detail](#admin-config).                                                                                                                           |
| **`custom`**       | Extension point for adding custom data (e.g. for plugins)                                                                                                                                           |

_\* An asterisk denotes that a property is required._

### Admin Config

In addition to the default [field admin config](/docs/fields/overview#admin-config), you can customize the following fields that will adjust how the component displays in the admin panel via the `date` property.

| Property                       | Description                                                                                 |
| ------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **`placeholder`**              | Placeholder text for the field.                                                             |
| **`date`**                     | Pass options to customize date field appearance.                                            |
| **`date.displayFormat`**       | Format date to be shown in field **cell**.                                                  |
| **`date.pickerAppearance`** \* | Determines the appearance of the datepicker: `dayAndTime` `timeOnly` `dayOnly` `monthOnly`. |
| **`date.monthsToShow`** \*     | Number of months to display max is 2. Defaults to 1.                                        |
| **`date.minDate`** \*          | Min date value to allow.                                                                    |
| **`date.maxDate`** \*          | Max date value to allow.                                                                    |
| **`date.minTime`** \*          | Min time value to allow.                                                                    |
| **`date.maxTime`** \*          | Max date value to allow.                                                                    |
| **`date.timeIntervals`** \*    | Time intervals to display. Defaults to 30 minutes.                                          |
| **`date.timeFormat`** \*       | Determines time format. Defaults to `'h:mm aa'`.                                            |

_\* This property is passed directly to [react-datepicker](https://github.com/Hacker0x01/react-datepicker/blob/master/docs/datepicker.md). ._

#### Display Format and Picker Appearance

These properties only affect how the date is displayed in the UI. The full date is always stored in the format `YYYY-MM-DDTHH:mm:ss.SSSZ` (e.g. `1999-01-01T8:00:00.000+05:00`).

`displayFormat` determines how the date is presented in the field **cell**, you can pass any valid (unicode date format)[https://date-fns.org/v2.29.3/docs/format].

`pickerAppearance` sets the appearance of the **react datepicker**, the options available are `dayAndTime`, `dayOnly`, `timeOnly`, and `monthOnly`. By default, the datepicker will display `dayOnly`.

When only `pickerAppearance` is set, an equivalent format will be rendered in the date field cell. To overwrite this format, set `displayFormat`.

### Example

`collections/ExampleCollection.ts`

```ts
import { CollectionConfig } from "payload/types";

const ExampleCollection: CollectionConfig = {
  slug: "example-collection",
  fields: [
    {
      name: "dateOnly",
      type: "date",
      admin: {
        date: {
          pickerAppearance: "dayOnly",
          displayFormat: "d MMM yyy",
        },
      },
    },
    {
      name: "timeOnly",
      type: "date",
      admin: {
        date: {
          pickerAppearance: "timeOnly",
          displayFormat: "h:mm:ss a",
        },
      },
    },
    {
      name: "monthOnly",
      type: "date",
      admin: {
        date: {
          pickerAppearance: "monthOnly",
          displayFormat: "MMMM yyyy",
        },
      },
    },
  ],
};
```
