docs/fields/group.mdx, before:

---
title: Group Field
label: Group
order: 90
desc: The Group field allows other fields to be nested under a common property. Learn how to use Group fields, see examples and options.
keywords: group, fields, config, configuration, documentation, Content Management System, cms, headless, javascript, node, react, express
---

<Banner >
  The Group field allows fields to be nested under a common property name. It also groups fields together visually in the Admin panel.
</Banner>

### Config

| Option           | Description |
| ---------------- | ----------- |
| **`name`** *         | To be used as the property name when stored and retrieved from the database. [More](/docs/fields/overview#field-names) |
| **`fields`** *       | Array of field types to nest within this Group. |
| **`label`**          | Used as a heading in the Admin panel and to name the generated GraphQL type. |
| **`validate`**       | Provide a custom validation function that will be executed on both the Admin panel and the backend. [More](/docs/fields/overview#validation) |
| **`saveToJWT`**      | If this field is top-level and nested in a config supporting [Authentication](/docs/authentication/config), include its data in the user JWT. |
| **`hooks`**          | Provide field-based hooks to control logic for this field. [More](/docs/fields/overview#field-level-hooks) |
| **`access`**         | Provide field-based access control to denote what users can see and do with this field's data. [More](/docs/fields/overview#field-level-access-control) |
| **`hidden`**         | Restrict this field's visibility from all APIs entirely. Will still be saved to the database, but will not appear in any API or the Admin panel. |
| **`defaultValue`**   | Provide an object of data to be used for this field's default value. [More](/docs/fields/overview#default-values) |
| **`localized`**      | Enable localization for this field. Requires [localization to be enabled](/docs/configuration/localization) in the Base config. If enabled, a separate, localized set of all data within this Group will be kept, so there is no need to specify each nested field as `localized`. |
| **`admin`**          | Admin-specific configuration. See below for [more detail](#admin-config). |

*\* An asterisk denotes that a property is required.*

### Admin config

In addition to the default [field admin config](/docs/fields/overview#admin-config), the Group allows for the following admin property:

**`hideGutter`**

Set this property to `true` to hide this field's gutter within the admin panel. The field gutter is rendered as a vertical line and padding, but often if this field is nested within a Group, Block, or Array, you may want to hide the gutter.

### Example

`collections/ExampleCollection.ts`
```ts
import { CollectionConfig } from 'payload/types';

const ExampleCollection: CollectionConfig = {
  slug: 'example-collection',
  fields: [
    {
      name: 'pageMeta', // required
      type: 'group', // required
      fields: [ // required
        {
          name: 'title',
          type: 'text',
          required: true,
          minLength: 20,
          maxLength: 100,
        },
        {
          name: 'description',
          type: 'textarea',
          required: true,
          minLength: 40,
          maxLength: 160,
        }
      ],
    }
  ]
};
```

Commit message:

feat: configuration extension points
* added custom config extension points

* Added custom field to documentation

* fix deeprequired issue

docs/fields/group.mdx, after:

---
title: Group Field
label: Group
order: 90
desc: The Group field allows other fields to be nested under a common property. Learn how to use Group fields, see examples and options.
keywords: group, fields, config, configuration, documentation, Content Management System, cms, headless, javascript, node, react, express
---

<Banner >
  The Group field allows fields to be nested under a common property name. It also groups fields together visually in the Admin panel.
</Banner>

### Config

| Option           | Description |
| ---------------- | ----------- |
| **`name`** *         | To be used as the property name when stored and retrieved from the database. [More](/docs/fields/overview#field-names) |
| **`fields`** *       | Array of field types to nest within this Group. |
| **`label`**          | Used as a heading in the Admin panel and to name the generated GraphQL type. |
| **`validate`**       | Provide a custom validation function that will be executed on both the Admin panel and the backend. [More](/docs/fields/overview#validation) |
| **`saveToJWT`**      | If this field is top-level and nested in a config supporting [Authentication](/docs/authentication/config), include its data in the user JWT. |
| **`hooks`**          | Provide field-based hooks to control logic for this field. [More](/docs/fields/overview#field-level-hooks) |
| **`access`**         | Provide field-based access control to denote what users can see and do with this field's data. [More](/docs/fields/overview#field-level-access-control) |
| **`hidden`**         | Restrict this field's visibility from all APIs entirely. Will still be saved to the database, but will not appear in any API or the Admin panel. |
| **`defaultValue`**   | Provide an object of data to be used for this field's default value. [More](/docs/fields/overview#default-values) |
| **`localized`**      | Enable localization for this field. Requires [localization to be enabled](/docs/configuration/localization) in the Base config. If enabled, a separate, localized set of all data within this Group will be kept, so there is no need to specify each nested field as `localized`. |
| **`admin`**          | Admin-specific configuration. See below for [more detail](#admin-config). |
| **`custom`**         | Extension point for adding custom data (e.g. for plugins) |

*\* An asterisk denotes that a property is required.*

### Admin config

In addition to the default [field admin config](/docs/fields/overview#admin-config), the Group allows for the following admin property:

**`hideGutter`**

Set this property to `true` to hide this field's gutter within the admin panel. The field gutter is rendered as a vertical line and padding, but often if this field is nested within a Group, Block, or Array, you may want to hide the gutter.

### Example

`collections/ExampleCollection.ts`
```ts
import { CollectionConfig } from 'payload/types';

const ExampleCollection: CollectionConfig = {
  slug: 'example-collection',
  fields: [
    {
      name: 'pageMeta', // required
      type: 'group', // required
      fields: [ // required
        {
          name: 'title',
          type: 'text',
          required: true,
          minLength: 20,
          maxLength: 100,
        },
        {
          name: 'description',
          type: 'textarea',
          required: true,
          minLength: 40,
          maxLength: 160,
        }
      ],
    }
  ]
};
```
