docs/fields/row.mdx, before:

---
title: Row Field
label: Row
order: 150
desc: With the Row field you can arrange fields next to each other in the Admin Panel to help you customize your Dashboard.
keywords: row, fields, config, configuration, documentation, Content Management System, cms, headless, javascript, node, react, express
---

<Banner >
  The Row field is presentational-only and only affects the Admin panel. By using it, you can arrange fields next to each other horizontally.
</Banner>

### Config

| Option           | Description |
| ---------------- | ----------- |
| **`fields`** *       | Array of field types to nest within this Row. |
| **`admin`**          | Admin-specific configuration excluding `description`, `readOnly`, and `hidden`. See the [default field admin config](/docs/fields/overview#admin-config) for more details. |

*\* An asterisk denotes that a property is required.*

### Example

`collections/ExampleCollection.ts`
```ts
import { CollectionConfig } from 'payload/types';

const ExampleCollection: CollectionConfig = {
  slug: 'example-collection',
  fields: [
    {
      type: 'row', // required
      fields: [ // required
        {
          name: 'label',
          type: 'text',
          required: true,
          admin: {
            width: '50%',
          },
        },
        {
          name: 'value',
          type: 'text',
          required: true,
          admin: {
            width: '50%',
          },
        },
      ],
    }
  ]
}

```

Commit message:

feat: configuration extension points
* added custom config extension points

* Added custom field to documentation

* fix deeprequired issue

docs/fields/row.mdx, after:

---
title: Row Field
label: Row
order: 150
desc: With the Row field you can arrange fields next to each other in the Admin Panel to help you customize your Dashboard.
keywords: row, fields, config, configuration, documentation, Content Management System, cms, headless, javascript, node, react, express
---

<Banner >
  The Row field is presentational-only and only affects the Admin panel. By using it, you can arrange fields next to each other horizontally.
</Banner>

### Config

| Option           | Description |
| ---------------- | ----------- |
| **`fields`** *       | Array of field types to nest within this Row. |
| **`admin`**          | Admin-specific configuration excluding `description`, `readOnly`, and `hidden`. See the [default field admin config](/docs/fields/overview#admin-config) for more details. |
| **`custom`**         | Extension point for adding custom data (e.g. for plugins) |

*\* An asterisk denotes that a property is required.*

### Example

`collections/ExampleCollection.ts`
```ts
import { CollectionConfig } from 'payload/types';

const ExampleCollection: CollectionConfig = {
  slug: 'example-collection',
  fields: [
    {
      type: 'row', // required
      fields: [ // required
        {
          name: 'label',
          type: 'text',
          required: true,
          admin: {
            width: '50%',
          },
        },
        {
          name: 'value',
          type: 'text',
          required: true,
          admin: {
            width: '50%',
          },
        },
      ],
    }
  ]
}

```
