docs/fields/select.mdx, before:

---
title: Select Field
label: Select
order: 160
desc: The Select field provides a dropdown-style interface for choosing options from a predefined list. Learn how to use Select fields, see examples and options.
keywords: select, multi-select, fields, config, configuration, documentation, Content Management System, cms, headless, javascript, node, react, express
---

<Banner>
  The Select field provides a dropdown-style interface for choosing options from
  a predefined list as an enumeration.
</Banner>

### Config

| Option             | Description                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| ------------------ |-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **`name`** \*      | To be used as the property name when stored and retrieved from the database. [More](/docs/fields/overview#field-names)                                                                              |
| **`options`** \*   | Array of options to allow the field to store. Can either be an array of strings, or an array of objects containing a `label` string and a `value` string.                                           |
| **`hasMany`**      | Boolean when, if set to `true`, allows this field to have many selections instead of only one.                                                                                                      |
| **`label`**        | Text used as a field label in the Admin panel or an object with keys for each language.                                                                                                             |
| **`unique`**       | Enforce that each entry in the Collection has a unique value for this field.                                                                                                                        |
| **`validate`**     | Provide a custom validation function that will be executed on both the Admin panel and the backend. [More](/docs/fields/overview#validation)                                                        |
| **`index`**        | Build a [MongoDB index](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/indexes/) for this field to produce faster queries. Set this field to `true` if your users will perform queries on this field's data often. |
| **`saveToJWT`**    | If this field is top-level and nested in a config supporting [Authentication](/docs/authentication/config), include its data in the user JWT.                                                       |
| **`hooks`**        | Provide field-based hooks to control logic for this field. [More](/docs/fields/overview#field-level-hooks)                                                                                          |
| **`access`**       | Provide field-based access control to denote what users can see and do with this field's data. [More](/docs/fields/overview#field-level-access-control)                                             |
| **`hidden`**       | Restrict this field's visibility from all APIs entirely. Will still be saved to the database, but will not appear in any API or the Admin panel.                                                    |
| **`defaultValue`** | Provide data to be used for this field's default value. [More](/docs/fields/overview#default-values)                                                                                                |
| **`localized`**    | Enable localization for this field. Requires [localization to be enabled](/docs/configuration/localization) in the Base config.                                                                     |
| **`required`**     | Require this field to have a value.                                                                                                                                                                 |
| **`admin`**        | Admin-specific configuration. See the [default field admin config](/docs/fields/overview#admin-config) for more details.                                                                            |

_\* An asterisk denotes that a property is required._

<Banner type="warning">
  <strong>Important:</strong>
  <br />
  Option values should be strings that do not contain hyphens or special
  characters due to GraphQL enumeration naming constraints. Underscores are
  allowed. If you determine you need your option values to be non-strings or
  contain special characters, they will be formatted accordingly before being
  used as a GraphQL enum.
</Banner>

### Admin config

In addition to the default [field admin config](/docs/fields/overview#admin-config), the Select field type also allows for the following admin-specific properties:

**`isClearable`**

Set to `true` if you'd like this field to be clearable within the Admin UI.

**`isSortable`**

Set to `true` if you'd like this field to be sortable within the Admin UI using drag and drop. (Only works when `hasMany` is set to `true`)

### Example

`collections/ExampleCollection.ts`
```ts
import { CollectionConfig } from 'payload/types';

const ExampleCollection: CollectionConfig = {
  slug: 'example-collection',
  fields: [
    {
      name: 'selectedFeatures', // required
      type: 'select', // required
      hasMany: true,
      admin: {
        isClearable: true,
        isSortable: true, // use mouse to drag and drop different values, and sort them according to your choice
      },
      options: [
        {
          label: 'Metallic Paint',
          value: 'metallic_paint',
        },
        {
          label: 'Alloy Wheels',
          value: 'alloy_wheels',
        },
        {
          label: 'Carbon Fiber Dashboard',
          value: 'carbon_fiber_dashboard',
        },
      ],
    }
  ]
}

```

Commit message:

feat: configuration extension points
* added custom config extension points

* Added custom field to documentation

* fix deeprequired issue

docs/fields/select.mdx, after:

---
title: Select Field
label: Select
order: 160
desc: The Select field provides a dropdown-style interface for choosing options from a predefined list. Learn how to use Select fields, see examples and options.
keywords: select, multi-select, fields, config, configuration, documentation, Content Management System, cms, headless, javascript, node, react, express
---

<Banner>
  The Select field provides a dropdown-style interface for choosing options from
  a predefined list as an enumeration.
</Banner>

### Config

| Option             | Description                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| ------------------ |-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **`name`** \*      | To be used as the property name when stored and retrieved from the database. [More](/docs/fields/overview#field-names)                                                                              |
| **`options`** \*   | Array of options to allow the field to store. Can either be an array of strings, or an array of objects containing a `label` string and a `value` string.                                           |
| **`hasMany`**      | Boolean when, if set to `true`, allows this field to have many selections instead of only one.                                                                                                      |
| **`label`**        | Text used as a field label in the Admin panel or an object with keys for each language.                                                                                                             |
| **`unique`**       | Enforce that each entry in the Collection has a unique value for this field.                                                                                                                        |
| **`validate`**     | Provide a custom validation function that will be executed on both the Admin panel and the backend. [More](/docs/fields/overview#validation)                                                        |
| **`index`**        | Build a [MongoDB index](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/indexes/) for this field to produce faster queries. Set this field to `true` if your users will perform queries on this field's data often. |
| **`saveToJWT`**    | If this field is top-level and nested in a config supporting [Authentication](/docs/authentication/config), include its data in the user JWT.                                                       |
| **`hooks`**        | Provide field-based hooks to control logic for this field. [More](/docs/fields/overview#field-level-hooks)                                                                                          |
| **`access`**       | Provide field-based access control to denote what users can see and do with this field's data. [More](/docs/fields/overview#field-level-access-control)                                             |
| **`hidden`**       | Restrict this field's visibility from all APIs entirely. Will still be saved to the database, but will not appear in any API or the Admin panel.                                                    |
| **`defaultValue`** | Provide data to be used for this field's default value. [More](/docs/fields/overview#default-values)                                                                                                |
| **`localized`**    | Enable localization for this field. Requires [localization to be enabled](/docs/configuration/localization) in the Base config.                                                                     |
| **`required`**     | Require this field to have a value.                                                                                                                                                                 |
| **`admin`**        | Admin-specific configuration. See the [default field admin config](/docs/fields/overview#admin-config) for more details.                                                                            |
| **`custom`**       | Extension point for adding custom data (e.g. for plugins)                                                                                                                                           |

_\* An asterisk denotes that a property is required._

<Banner type="warning">
  <strong>Important:</strong>
  <br />
  Option values should be strings that do not contain hyphens or special
  characters due to GraphQL enumeration naming constraints. Underscores are
  allowed. If you determine you need your option values to be non-strings or
  contain special characters, they will be formatted accordingly before being
  used as a GraphQL enum.
</Banner>

### Admin config

In addition to the default [field admin config](/docs/fields/overview#admin-config), the Select field type also allows for the following admin-specific properties:

**`isClearable`**

Set to `true` if you'd like this field to be clearable within the Admin UI.

**`isSortable`**

Set to `true` if you'd like this field to be sortable within the Admin UI using drag and drop. (Only works when `hasMany` is set to `true`)

### Example

`collections/ExampleCollection.ts`
```ts
import { CollectionConfig } from 'payload/types';

const ExampleCollection: CollectionConfig = {
  slug: 'example-collection',
  fields: [
    {
      name: 'selectedFeatures', // required
      type: 'select', // required
      hasMany: true,
      admin: {
        isClearable: true,
        isSortable: true, // use mouse to drag and drop different values, and sort them according to your choice
      },
      options: [
        {
          label: 'Metallic Paint',
          value: 'metallic_paint',
        },
        {
          label: 'Alloy Wheels',
          value: 'alloy_wheels',
        },
        {
          label: 'Carbon Fiber Dashboard',
          value: 'carbon_fiber_dashboard',
        },
      ],
    }
  ]
}

```
