docs/fields/tabs.mdx, before:

---
title: Tabs Field
label: Tabs
order: 170
desc: The Tabs field is a great way to organize complex editing experiences into specific tab-based areas.
keywords: tabs, fields, config, configuration, documentation, Content Management System, cms, headless, javascript, node, react, express
---

<Banner >
  The Tabs field is presentational-only and only affects the Admin panel (unless a tab is named). By using it, you can place fields within a nice layout component that separates certain sub-fields by a tabbed interface.
</Banner>

![Tabs field type used to separate Hero fields from Page Layout](https://payloadcms.com/images/docs/fields/tabs/tabs.jpg)
*Tabs field type used to separate Hero fields from Page Layout*

### Config

| Option           | Description |
| ---------------- | ----------- |
| **`tabs`** *     | Array of tabs to render within this Tabs field. |
| **`admin`**      | Admin-specific configuration. See the [default field admin config](/docs/fields/overview#admin-config) for more details. |

#### Tab-specific Config

Each tab has its own required `label` and `fields` array. You can also optionally pass a `description` to render within each individual tab.

| Option            | Description |
| ----------------- | ----------- |
| **`name`**        | An optional property name to be used when stored and retrieved from the database. [More](/docs/fields/overview#field-names) |
| **`label`** *     | The label to render on the tab itself. |
| **`fields`** *    | The fields to render within this tab. |
| **`description`** | Optionally render a description within this tab to describe the contents of the tab itself. |

*\* An asterisk denotes that a property is required.*

### Example

`collections/ExampleCollection.ts`
```ts
import { CollectionConfig } from 'payload/types';

const ExampleCollection: CollectionConfig = {
  slug: 'example-collection',
  fields: [
    {
      type: 'tabs', // required
      tabs: [ // required
        {
          label: 'Tab One Label', // required
          description: 'This will appear within the tab above the fields.',
          fields: [ // required
            {
              name: 'someTextField',
              type: 'text',
              required: true,
            },
          ],
        },
        {
          name: 'tabTwo',
          label: 'Tab Two Label', // required
          fields: [ // required
            {
              name: 'numberField', // accessible via tabTwo.numberField
              type: 'number',
              required: true,
            },
          ],
        }
      ]

    }
  ]
}
```

Commit message:

feat: configuration extension points
* added custom config extension points

* Added custom field to documentation

* fix deeprequired issue

docs/fields/tabs.mdx, after:

---
title: Tabs Field
label: Tabs
order: 170
desc: The Tabs field is a great way to organize complex editing experiences into specific tab-based areas.
keywords: tabs, fields, config, configuration, documentation, Content Management System, cms, headless, javascript, node, react, express
---

<Banner >
  The Tabs field is presentational-only and only affects the Admin panel (unless a tab is named). By using it, you can place fields within a nice layout component that separates certain sub-fields by a tabbed interface.
</Banner>

![Tabs field type used to separate Hero fields from Page Layout](https://payloadcms.com/images/docs/fields/tabs/tabs.jpg)
*Tabs field type used to separate Hero fields from Page Layout*

### Config

| Option           | Description |
| ---------------- | ----------- |
| **`tabs`** *     | Array of tabs to render within this Tabs field. |
| **`admin`**      | Admin-specific configuration. See the [default field admin config](/docs/fields/overview#admin-config) for more details. |
| **`custom`**     | Extension point for adding custom data (e.g. for plugins) |

#### Tab-specific Config

Each tab has its own required `label` and `fields` array. You can also optionally pass a `description` to render within each individual tab.

| Option            | Description |
| ----------------- | ----------- |
| **`name`**        | An optional property name to be used when stored and retrieved from the database. [More](/docs/fields/overview#field-names) |
| **`label`** *     | The label to render on the tab itself. |
| **`fields`** *    | The fields to render within this tab. |
| **`description`** | Optionally render a description within this tab to describe the contents of the tab itself. |

*\* An asterisk denotes that a property is required.*

### Example

`collections/ExampleCollection.ts`
```ts
import { CollectionConfig } from 'payload/types';

const ExampleCollection: CollectionConfig = {
  slug: 'example-collection',
  fields: [
    {
      type: 'tabs', // required
      tabs: [ // required
        {
          label: 'Tab One Label', // required
          description: 'This will appear within the tab above the fields.',
          fields: [ // required
            {
              name: 'someTextField',
              type: 'text',
              required: true,
            },
          ],
        },
        {
          name: 'tabTwo',
          label: 'Tab Two Label', // required
          fields: [ // required
            {
              name: 'numberField', // accessible via tabTwo.numberField
              type: 'number',
              required: true,
            },
          ],
        }
      ]

    }
  ]
}
```
